.. SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0

================
Kernel Internals
================

CPU configuration
=================

Because SGX has an ever evolving and expanding feature set, it's possible for
a BIOS or VMM to configure a system in such a way that not all CPUs are equal,
e.g. where Launch Control is only enabled on a subset of CPUs.  Linux does
*not* support such a heterogeneous system configuration, nor does it even
attempt to play nice in the face of a misconfigured system.  With the exception
of Launch Control's hash MSRs, which can vary per CPU, Linux assumes that all
CPUs have a configuration that is identical to the boot CPU.

EPC management
==============

Because the kernel can't arbitrarily read EPC memory or share RO backing pages
between enclaves, traditional memory models such as CoW and fork() do not work
with enclaves.  In other words, the architectural rules of EPC forces it to be
treated as MAP_SHARED at all times.

The inability to employ traditional memory models also means that EPC memory
must be isolated from normal memory pools, e.g. attempting to use EPC memory
for normal mappings would result in faults and/or perceived data corruption.
Furthermore, EPC is not enumerated by as normal memory, e.g. BIOS enumerates
EPC as reserved memory in the e820 tables, or not at all.  As a result, EPC
memory is directly managed by the SGX subsystem, e.g. SGX employs VM_PFNMAP to
manually insert/zap/swap page table entries, and exposes EPC to userspace via
a well known device, /dev/sgx/enclave.

The net effect is that all enclave VMAs must be MAP_SHARED and are backed by
a single file, /dev/sgx/enclave.

EPC oversubscription
====================

SGX allows to have larger enclaves than amount of available EPC by providing a
subset of leaf instruction for swapping EPC pages to the system memory.  The
details of these instructions are discussed in the architecture document. Due
to the unique requirements for swapping EPC pages, and because EPC pages do not
have associated page structures, management of the EPC is not handled by the
standard memory subsystem.

SGX directly handles swapping of EPC pages, including a thread to initiate the
reclaiming process and a rudimentary LRU mechanism. When the amount of free EPC
pages goes below a low watermark the swapping thread starts reclaiming pages.
The pages that have not been recently accessed (i.e. do not have the A bit set)
are selected as victim pages. Each enclave holds an shmem file as a backing
storage for reclaimed pages.

Launch Control
==============

The current kernel implementation supports only writable MSRs. The launch is
performed by setting the MSRs to the hash of the public key modulus of the
enclave signer and a token with the valid bit set to zero. Because kernel makes
ultimately all the launch decisions token are not needed for anything.  We
don't need or have a launch enclave for generating them as the MSRs must always
be writable.

Provisioning
============

The use of provisioning must be controlled because it allows to get access to
the provisioning keys to attest to a remote party that the software is running
inside a legit enclave. This could be used by a malware network to ensure that
its nodes are running inside legit enclaves.

The driver introduces a special device file /dev/sgx/provision and a special
ioctl SGX_IOC_ENCLAVE_SET_ATTRIBUTE to accomplish this. A file descriptor
pointing to /dev/sgx/provision is passed to ioctl from which kernel authorizes
the PROVISION_KEY attribute to the enclave.
